README.md, before:

# Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian's Academic Website

This repository contains the source code for a classic oldschool yet elegant academic website for Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian, Assistant Professor of Information Systems and Supply Chain Management at Howard University School of Business.

You can visit the live site at <https://balasubramanian.us>.

## Design Philosophy

This website intentionally embraces a classic, early-web aesthetic while maintaining elegance and accessibility:

- Table-based layout reminiscent of academic websites from the early 2000s
- Serif typography for readability and classic appeal
- Minimal JavaScript
- Decorative ornaments and double borders for visual interest
- High contrast text with a light background
- Side navigation with contact information
- Fully responsive design that works on modern devices

## Accessibility Features

Despite the vintage aesthetic, the site includes several modern accessibility features:

- Skip to content link
- Text resizing controls
- High contrast mode
- Semantic HTML structure
- Responsive design that works on mobile devices
- Large default font size (18px)
- Preserved preferences using localStorage

## Content Sections

- About
- Education
- Research Expertise
- Teaching
- Publications
- Contact

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository
2. Deploy to GitHub Pages or your preferred hosting service

## Local Development

To work on this website locally:

1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/kartbala/personal-website.git
```

2. Open the project in your preferred editor

3. Modify the files as needed

4. Test locally by opening index.html in a browser

5. Commit and push changes:
```
git add .
git commit -m "Your changes description"
git push origin main
```

## Homepage Image Carousel

The homepage features an image carousel that displays images from the `images/` folder.

Whenever images are added or removed, a GitHub Actions workflow automatically updates `scripts/image_list.json` with the current contents of the folder. You can also update the file manually by running:
```bash
python scripts/generate_image_list.py
```
The JSON file is used by the homepage to choose a random image.

## Search and Keyboard Navigation

Press `/` on any page to open a spotlight style search overlay powered by `scripts/site_search.js`. Results are pulled from `search_index.json`, so add new pages there if you want them indexed. Link hotkeys are also displayed when `scripts/keyboard_nav.js` is loaded, letting you jump to links using letter shortcuts.

## Automated Updates

Two GitHub Actions workflows help keep assets fresh:

- `update_image_list.yml` runs daily to regenerate `scripts/image_list.json`.
- `update_publications.yml` runs monthly to update `publications.json` by scraping Google Scholar with `scholar_scraper.py`.

You can run these scripts locally if desired:

```bash
python scripts/generate_image_list.py
python scholar_scraper.py
```

The `scripts/version.js` file is also updated automatically by a pre-commit hook (or by running `./update-version.sh`) to include the latest commit hash and timestamp.

## Interactive Demos

This repository contains numerous small HTML pages showcasing clocks, math animations, audio visualizers, and other experiments. The `cool_visualizations.html` page links to many of them.

## React Globe Demo

A small React example using [`react-globe.gl`](https://github.com/vasturiano/react-globe.gl) lives in the `react-globe/` directory. Refer to its README for usage instructions.

## Contact

For more information, please contact me at karthik.b@howard.edu

## License

Copyright © 2025 Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian. All Rights Reserved.

Commit message:

Rename images folder and update carousel

README.md, after:

# Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian's Academic Website

This repository contains the source code for a classic oldschool yet elegant academic website for Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian, Assistant Professor of Information Systems and Supply Chain Management at Howard University School of Business.

You can visit the live site at <https://balasubramanian.us>.

## Design Philosophy

This website intentionally embraces a classic, early-web aesthetic while maintaining elegance and accessibility:

- Table-based layout reminiscent of academic websites from the early 2000s
- Serif typography for readability and classic appeal
- Minimal JavaScript
- Decorative ornaments and double borders for visual interest
- High contrast text with a light background
- Side navigation with contact information
- Fully responsive design that works on modern devices

## Accessibility Features

Despite the vintage aesthetic, the site includes several modern accessibility features:

- Skip to content link
- Text resizing controls
- High contrast mode
- Semantic HTML structure
- Responsive design that works on mobile devices
- Large default font size (18px)
- Preserved preferences using localStorage

## Content Sections

- About
- Education
- Research Expertise
- Teaching
- Publications
- Contact

## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository
2. Deploy to GitHub Pages or your preferred hosting service

## Local Development

To work on this website locally:

1. Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/kartbala/personal-website.git
```

2. Open the project in your preferred editor

3. Modify the files as needed

4. Test locally by opening index.html in a browser

5. Commit and push changes:
```
git add .
git commit -m "Your changes description"
git push origin main
```

## Homepage Image Carousel

The homepage displays a rotating set of images pulled from the `headshot images/`
folder.

Whenever images are added or removed, a GitHub Actions workflow automatically updates `scripts/image_list.json` with the current contents of the folder. You can also update the file manually by running:
```bash
python scripts/generate_image_list.py
```
The JSON file is used by the homepage to cycle through the available images.

## Search and Keyboard Navigation

Press `/` on any page to open a spotlight style search overlay powered by `scripts/site_search.js`. Results are pulled from `search_index.json`, so add new pages there if you want them indexed. Link hotkeys are also displayed when `scripts/keyboard_nav.js` is loaded, letting you jump to links using letter shortcuts.

## Automated Updates

Two GitHub Actions workflows help keep assets fresh:

- `update_image_list.yml` runs daily to regenerate `scripts/image_list.json`.
- `update_publications.yml` runs monthly to update `publications.json` by scraping Google Scholar with `scholar_scraper.py`.

You can run these scripts locally if desired:

```bash
python scripts/generate_image_list.py
python scholar_scraper.py
```

The `scripts/version.js` file is also updated automatically by a pre-commit hook (or by running `./update-version.sh`) to include the latest commit hash and timestamp.

## Interactive Demos

This repository contains numerous small HTML pages showcasing clocks, math animations, audio visualizers, and other experiments. The `cool_visualizations.html` page links to many of them.

## React Globe Demo

A small React example using [`react-globe.gl`](https://github.com/vasturiano/react-globe.gl) lives in the `react-globe/` directory. Refer to its README for usage instructions.

## Contact

For more information, please contact me at karthik.b@howard.edu

## License

Copyright © 2025 Dr. Karthik Balasubramanian. All Rights Reserved.
